---
domains:
    - general
end_date: ongoing
owner: charlesponti
project: unknown
start_date: 2026-02-12T00:00:00Z
status: active
team:
    - charlesponti
type: technical

tags:
  - technical
  - unknown
---

_This document outlines our conception of the ideal company that is both **financially** and **socially** successful._

# **🧭 Mission**

# **🔍 Vision**

# **⚖️ Values**

### **Simplicity**

People should not be subjected to overly complex, difficult-to-use interfaces designed in the mid-nineties. We value simplicity above all else because we believe the technological barriers between creatives and the goals they want to achieve are too high.

### **Trust**

Mel Brooks once said “Trust is like a boomerang, it always comes back to you... unless you throw it at someone's face.” Except Mel Brooks didn’t say that. That’s a made-up quote generated by ChatGPT. And now you’re upset that we lied to you. That’s why trust is so important.

### **Collaboration**

Collaboration is the cornerstone of any great organization. Prolog values collaboration not only in the products we build, but also within our company. Because no one can do anything great without the help of others. Except that guy in _Free Solo_. What a badass.

### **Expertise**

We take enormous pride in our domain expertise. It’s the reason we’re able to make such amazing software, and we constantly seek to bolster that knowledge by learning from the smartest experts we know: Hyper-intelligent robots. I mean: Our customers.

### **Curiosity**

We’re endlessly curious about all sorts of things, from artificial intelligence to television storytelling mechanics to ionic thrust engines. This curiosity allows us to explore problems in a deep, meaningful way, because asking the right questions almost always yields better solutions than trying to provide the answer.

### **Creativity**

We believe creativity makes the world a more exciting place, and we strive to enhance the creative process with the tools we build. Creative content must be created, and empowered creators create powerful creations.

## Develop superior solutions to various issues

- our work must provide a measurable positive social contribution.
- We measure success by customers’ increased fulfillment.
- We are risk-tolerant.
- We solve problems that others ignore.
- providing an enjoyable workplace
- competitive pay -> we will outcompete anyone for people we want to work with.
- benefits
- mentorship
- opportunities for vertical and horizontal growth.
- Every employee has ownership over and inquiry in their work, i.e., all members profit from their successful projects.
- Every member will become wealthy.

## We push design

We don't copy other people's designs.

We follow best practices, but that doesn't stop us from pushing the limit on everything we build.

## We don't play defense.

We don't give a damn what our competition is doing. We don't give a damn if they copy everything we do. (Better for their customers)

## We strive to leave the world better than we found it.

## How we work

## How we treat employees

We only collaborate with positive individuals, regardless of whether they are a colleague, suppliers, or significant clients. 4. We approach everybody, even assholes, with love and empathy. 5. Everybody eats 6. Designers over MBAs 7. We _**ruthlessly**_ believe in communities. We find opportunities to convert successful products and common problems into thriving _**collaborative and cooperative communities**_  8. We pull no punches when criticizing each other's work.

## Culture

- **Prioritize impact:** We strive to leave the world better than we found it.
- **No assholes:** No egos allowed.

## Design

- We follow best practices but do not copy designs.

## Strategy

- We don't play defense.
- We don't base our decisions on our competition.
- We encourage others to copy what we do that works because it improves customers' lives.

## Innovation

there aren't many companies that have the environments and cultures that younger workers want. this is a good thing. Capitalism demands consistent business turnover. if a business is not put out of business, it must undergo consistent and sometimes dramatic shifts in ways of operating, ways of leading, ways of hiring, etc. We are not starting anywhere near enough new businesses so we are left with older-style companies.

## Culture

- 100% transparency
- Employees know the long-term strategy
- Leaders should not isolate themselves.
- Humans shouldn't be motivated to take ineffective or illogical actions due to the long term harm. They will become increasingly aggrieved the longer they are pushed towards these actions, potentially leading to fierce rebellions.

## Privacy First

- Respect individuals' privacy
- Obtain consent before collecting personal data
- Use data only for specified purposes
- Protect data from unauthorized access
- Allow individuals to access and correct their data
- Follow laws and regulations regarding data privacy
- Transparent data practices
- Delete data when it is no longer needed

_The most valuable asset our company has is our commitment to a set of principles. People come and go. Products will succeed and fail. However, our principles ensure continued success in diverse conditions and through the roughest of headwinds._

## **Rules for Rules**

- _Rules must provide the company with a competitive advantage._
- Rules must flexible and adaptable to accommodate rapid technological changes and evolving user needs.
- Each rule should be user-centric, focusing on enhancing the user experience or solving a user problem.
- Rules must be regularly reviewed and updated to ensure they remain relevant and effective in a fast-paced startup environment.

- Software must work cross-platform and cross-operating system.

- All product ideas must follow this format:
  - **Problem/Opportunity**
  - **Potential Solution/Execution**
  - **Notes/Further Thoughts**

## We only compete with ourselves.

## Being early or first is not important.

## Meetings

- anyone who is not contributing or whose input are not required should leave the meeting.
- communicate directly instead of through intermediaries, such as managers. this speeds up decision-making and action-taking.
- language must be clear and concise, without jargon and filler words.
- slide decks are not allowed.

### Avoid large meetings

- Meetings beyond are particular threshold of participants are ineffective because:
  - Debate is discouraged due to fear of looking unintelligent.
  - larger meetings can discourage debate, leading individuals to be more guarded than open. In addition, meetings with many participants can mean that there needs to be more time for all participants to contribute meaningfully. It is important that everyone gains value from attending the meeting.

### Avoid frequent meetings

Frequent meetings increase the likelihood of having unnecessary meetings.

Use meetings to:

- Collaborate
- Attack issues head-on
- Solve urgent problems. Once issues are resolved, frequent meetings are no longer necessary.
- Most issues can be resolved without a meeting. Don’t unecessarily interrupt your team’s workflow if it’s unnecessary. Instead of meetings:
  - Send a text
  - Send an email
  - Communicate on Discord or Slack channel.

### Acceptable types of meetings

- Setting priorities
- Checking status
  - Product or project
  - Departmental
  - **Contributor**

## Investigation

- **Interviews:** Ask users to speak on and enumerate past experiences instead of conjured scenarios. This improves the quality of the information because people can more accurately speak about experiences than their imagination. Talking about past experiences also enhances the odds that people will showcase their associated emotions with that experience.
- **Observation (Data Analytics)**

## Generation

- **Brainstorming**
